SEP-10: Clarifying Participants (#851)
stellar/stellar-protocol: ecosystem/sep-0010.md

This protocol is a variation of mutual challenge-response, which uses Stellar transactions to encode challenges and responses.

It involves the following components:
- A **Home Domain**: a domain hosting a [SEP-1 stellar.toml](sep-0001.md) containing a `WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT` (URL) and `SIGNING_KEY` (`G...`).

> - A **Server**: a server providing the `WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT` that implements the GET and POST operations discussed in this document. The server's domain may be the **Home Domain**, a sub-domain of the **Home Domain**, or any other domain.

Reviewer: 💡 This is sort of out-of-scope of your PR but I think this tiny tweak is worthwhile. The 'any other domain' doesn't quite communicate the same intent as saying it can be a different domain, although they're similar.
```suggestion
- A **Server**: a server providing the `WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT` that implements the GET and POST operations discussed in this document. The server's domain may be the **Home Domain**, a sub-domain of the **Home Domain**, or a different domain.
```

>     - The `SIGNING_KEY` from the **Home Domain** will be refered to as the **Server Account**.

Reviewer: 🔠 
```suggestion
    - The `SIGNING_KEY` from the **Home Domain** is the **Server Account**.
```

- A **Client**: the software used by the holder of the account being authenticated by the **Server**.

>     - The account being authenticated will be refered to as the **Client Account**.

Reviewer: 🔠 
```suggestion
    - The account being authenticated is the **Client Account**.
```

The discovery flow is as follows:

1. The **Client** retrieves the `stellar.toml` from the **Home Domain** in accordance with [SEP-1 stellar.toml](sep-0001.md).

> 1. The **Client** looks up the `WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT` and `SIGNING_KEY` (i.e. **Server Account**) from the `stellar.toml`.

Reviewer: 🎉 This referencing here of both the signing key and the server account at the first mention is helpful, great idea.

The authentication flow is as follows:

1. The **Client** obtains a unique [`challenge`](#challenge) from the **Server**, which is represented as specially formed Stellar transaction
1. The **Client** verifies that the transaction has an invalid sequence number 0.  This is extremely important to ensure the transaction isn't malicious.
1. The **Client** verifies that the transaction is signed by the **Server Account** obtained through discovery flow.
1. The **Client** verifies that the transaction's first operation is a Manage Data operation that has its:
   1. Source account set to the **Client Account**
   1. Key set to `<home domain> auth` where the home domain is the **Home Domain**.
   1. Value set to a nonce value.
1. The **Client** verifies that if the transaction has a Manage Data operation with key `web_auth_domain` that it has:
   1. Source account set to the **Server Account**.

>    1. Value set to the **Server**'s domain.

Reviewer: ❗ I think we need to keep the text that was removed. It is important that the client verify it matches the domain they requested from. I don't want that distinction to be lost.
```suggestion
   1. Value set to the **Server**'s domain that the client requested the challenge from.
```

1. The **Client Application** verifies that if the transaction has other operations they are Manage Data operations that all have their source accounts set to the the ``SIGNING_KEY`` from the **Home Domain**'s [SEP-1 stellar.toml](sep-0001.md).
1. The **Client Application** signs the transaction using the secret key(s) of the signer(s) for the **Authenticating Account**
1. The **Client Application** submits the signed challenge back to the **Web Auth Endpoint** using [`token`](#token) endpoint

> 1. The **Web Auth Endpoint** checks that the **Authenticating Account** exists

Author: I think having a `Web Auth Endpoint`, `Web Auth Server`, and `Web Auth Domain` adds more potential for confusion than having a single `Web Auth` participant and referencing related properties of that participant. Listing each as participants makes it seem like they are independent of each other, even if the definitions at the top of the document clarify that they're all related.

My preference would be to only define `Web Auth Server` in the participants list, but as you suggest we can make sure we're referring to the `Web Auth Server`'s endpoint when appropriate, and same for it's domain.

> 1. The **Web Auth Endpoint** checks that the **Authenticating Account** exists

Reviewer: I see your point. 👍

I think this also raises the question if the authenticating account is necessary, given that it is just a component of the client and it might be better to return to Client and Server, but do as you've done here and make them explicit identifiers by holding them and using them intentionally. Then attribution introduces only one new concept, the Client Server.

Thoughts?

> 1. The **Web Auth Endpoint** checks that the **Authenticating Account** exists

Author: So you're suggesting to have the following components defined in the abstract:
- Home Domain
- Client Application
- Web Auth Server

But still use the bolded style when referring to properties related to the components defined in the abstract? I think we should reserve the bolded style to explicitly defined components, because bolding effectively implies that they are defined.

Do you think any of the following phrases are ambiguous?

> Source account set to the account the **Client Application** is authenticating

> The **Client Application** obtains a unique [`challenge`](#challenge) from the endpoint implemented by the **Web Auth Server**

> The source account is the **Home Domain**'s ``SIGNING_KEY``, the value is the domain on which the **Web Auth Server** is hosted.

The above phrases replaces usage of **Authenticating Account**, **Web Auth Endpoint**, and **Web Auth Domain** terms. It may be more verbose but I don't think there is potential for misunderstanding.

Client Attribution would then introduce the **Client Server**, along with language like the following:

> The **Client Server** should implement an endpoint that accepts a challenge transaction from the **Client Application** and signs it using the `SIGNING_KEY` listed on the [SEP-1 stellar.toml](...) file hosted on it's domain

> 1. The **Web Auth Endpoint** checks that the **Authenticating Account** exists

Reviewer: I was meaning what you outlined, only three bolded components and rely on as brief identification for others, then the client server becomes a new component.

I'd like to find a more succinct form for the server account/signing key though. 

I think if we rename Web Auth Server to simply Server, then to say Client account and Server account is sufficient, then Client Server is still distinct?

> 1. The **Web Auth Endpoint** checks that the **Authenticating Account** exists

Author: Sounds good to me!

This protocol is a variation of mutual challenge-response, which uses Stellar transactions to encode challenges and responses.

It involves three components:

> - A **Home Domain**: a domain hosting a [SEP-1 stellar.toml](sep-0001.md) containing a `WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT` (URL) and `SIGNING_KEY` (`G...`). The ``WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT`` must be hosted by a **Web Auth Endpoint** as described below.

Reviewer: 💡 I don't think you need this, it is rather self explanatory especially given the proximity to the next line.
```suggestion
- A **Home Domain**: a domain hosting a [SEP-1 stellar.toml](sep-0001.md) containing a `WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT` (URL) and `SIGNING_KEY` (`G...`).
```

> - The **TOML Server**: a server hosting a [SEP-1 stellar.toml](sep-0001.md) containing a `WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT` (URL) and `SIGNING_KEY` (`G...`). The ``WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT`` must be hosted by the **Web Auth Server** as described below.

Reviewer: 🔠 I think we probably want to keep `The` => `A` for all of these, because we're not referring to a definite article, but an indefinite article. We're referring to any toml server participating in SEP-10.

> - A **Web Auth Endpoint**: a domain hosting an endpoint providing the GET and POST operations discussed in this document. The endpoint may be hosted on a **Home Domain**, a sub-domain of a **Home Domain**, or any other domain.

Reviewer: ❗ The endpoint isn't a domain, but it leads by saying that it is a domain.

```suggestion
- A **Web Auth Endpoint**: an endpoint providing the GET and POST operations discussed in this document. The endpoint may be hosted on the **Home Domain**, a sub-domain of the **Home Domain**, or any other domain.
```

❗ After re-reading this I think it is still necessary to either keep the sentence `The domain where the endpoint is hosted is referred to as the web auth domain.` which is in the original, or to add that statement to a new list item. A list item would be more explicit:

```suggestion
- A **Web Auth Endpoint**: an endpoint providing the GET and POST operations discussed in this document. The endpoint may be hosted on a **Home Domain**, a sub-domain of a **Home Domain**, or any other domain.
- A **Web Auth Domain**: the domain where the **Web Auth Endpoint** is hosted. 
```

Author: I agree, its ultimately better to be explicit even if `Web Auth Domain` is seldom used. Editing your 2nd suggestion so that it doesn't conflict with the first -- I'm committing both.

> - The **TOML Server**: a server hosting a [SEP-1 stellar.toml](sep-0001.md) containing a `WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT` (URL) and `SIGNING_KEY` (`G...`). The ``WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT`` must be hosted by the **Web Auth Server** as described below.
> - The **Web Auth Server**: a domain hosting an endpoint providing the GET and POST operations discussed in this document. The endpoint may be hosted on the **TOML Server**'s domain, a sub-domain of the **TOML Server**'s domain, or any other domain.

Reviewer: 💡  I think TOML Server and Web Auth Server are being a little too prescriptive and distancing the definition of the participants from what matters for SEP-10. SEP-10 doesn't need you to have these servers in the modern sense of the word, but needs you to provides:
- A home domain that has a toml file at a URL at that domain.
- An web auth endpoint.

Whatever approach an implementer takes to providing those is out-of-scope, and making the home domain a participant is critical to the rest of the specification where the home domain is a thing.

```suggestion
- A **Home Domain**: a domain hosting a [SEP-1 stellar.toml](sep-0001.md) containing a `WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT` (URL) and `SIGNING_KEY` (`G...`).
- A **Web Auth Endpoint**: an endpoint providing the GET and POST operations discussed in this document. The endpoint may be hosted on the **Home Domain**, a sub-domain of the **Home Domain**, or any other domain. 
- A **Web Auth Domain**: the domain hosting the **Web Auth Endpoint**.
```

Thoughts?

Author: I like the change from `TOML Server` to `Home Domain` because you're right, we use the word 'home domain' throughout the doc and in request parameters. 

However I think the change from `Web Auth Server` to `Web Auth Domain` & `Web Auth Endpoint` is a bit unnecessary. Unlike the home domain hosting a static file at a path, an actual API server is required to process authentication requests. I don't see the value of trying to de-couple the endpoint and domain of the web auth server.

Reviewer: I see your point. How about we replace Web Auth Endpoint with Web Auth Server, but keep Web Auth Domain in the list because it is an important attribute elsewhere in the SEP?

Author: Hmm if the goal is to define a component for the `web_auth_domain` key mentioned in the SEP, then I think we should go with what you had: `Web Auth Endpoint` & `Web Auth Domain`, since the TOML uses `WEB_AUTH_ENDPOINT`.

However, I'm not sure it worth it to explicitly define a `Web Auth Domain`, since there are only two places where it would be used. Do you think the current phrasing is confusing?

(in the abstract)
> 1. The **Client Application** verifies that if the transaction has a Manage Data operation with key `web_auth_domain` that it has:
>       1. Source account set to the ``SIGNING_KEY`` from the **Home Domain**'s [SEP-1 stellar.toml](sep-0001.md).
>       1. Value set to the **Web Auth Server**'s domain.

(in the response)
> * `manage_data(source: server_account, key: 'web_auth_domain', value: web_auth_domain)`
>        * The source account is the **Home Domain**'s ``SIGNING_KEY``, the value is the domain of the **Web Auth Server**. It can be at most 64 characters.

Reviewer: I see your point. It's not anymore ambiguous to refer to the domain of the Web Auth Server.

I also agree for Web Auth Endpoint so as to remain consistent with the stellar.toml, so there is one less new concept and we continue to reuse the existing concept.

Author: Ok, so the take-away is to change `Web Auth Server` to `Web Auth Endpoint`, but not use the additional `Web Auth Domain` term, since we can easily say `the domain of the **Web Auth Endpoint**`?

Reviewer: Yup, that's how I interpreted what you were saying and I think that strikes the balance.

> - An **Authenticating Account**: The public key of the Stellar account being authenticated.

Reviewer: ❗ The component is the account not the public key. In the API we might reference the public key but the component in play is the account itself.
```suggestion
- An **Authenticating Account**: a Stellar account being authenticated.
```

Author: I don't feel strongly either way, but the account may not actually exist, which is why I chose to mention the public key specifically.

> - The **Client Application**: the application used by the account holder of the **Authenticating Account**.

Reviewer: ❗ We should be consistent in this list with the A vs The leads:
```suggestion
- A **Client Application**: the software used by the account holder of the **Authenticating Account**.
```

> - The **Client Application**: the application used by the owner of the **Authenticating Account**.

Reviewer: 💡 I think `owner` is okay, but `account holder` is more specific and descriptive, and also a common phrase used in financial products which helps provide more depth here.
```suggestion
- The **Client Application**: the application used by the account holder of the **Authenticating Account**.
```

### Challenge

> This endpoint must respond with a Stellar transaction signed by the ``SIGNING_KEY`` from the **Home Domain**'s [`stellar.toml`](sep-0001.md) file that has an invalid sequence number (0) and thus cannot be executed on the Stellar network. The **Client Application** can then sign the transaction using standard Stellar libraries and submit it to [`token`](#token) endpoint to prove that it controls the **Authenticating Account**. This approach is compatible with hardware wallets such as Ledger. The **Client Application** must also verify the home domain in the first operation of the challenge is the **Home Domain**.

Reviewer: ❗️In the last sentence of this section it called out that the client must verify the servers signature. That's been removed, but it seems unnecessary to me to remove it if this change is scoped to clarifying the participants. We kept the statement to verify the home domain, which seems like we're playing more importance on that when everything that needs verifying is important.

On success the endpoint must return `200 OK` HTTP status code and a JSON object with these fields:

* `transaction`: an XDR-encoded Stellar transaction with the following:
  * source account set to the **Home Domain**'s ``SIGNING_KEY``
  * invalid sequence number (set to 0) so the transaction cannot be run on the Stellar network
  * time bounds: `{min: now(), max: now() + 900 }` (we recommend expiration of 15 minutes to give the **Client Application** time to sign transaction)
  * operations:
    * `manage_data(source: authenticating_account, key: '<home domain> auth', value: random_nonce())`

>       * The value of key is the **Home Domain**, followed by `auth`. It can be at most 64 characters.

Reviewer: 💡 I think it is worth adding a dot point here above the key dot point, that states that the source account is the `**Authenticating Account**` so you make use of the participant bold text here.

      * The value must be 64 bytes long. It contains a 48 byte cryptographic-quality random string encoded using base64 (for a total of 64 bytes after encoding).
    * subsequent operations, order unimportant:
      * `manage_data(source: server_account, key: 'web_auth_domain', value: web_auth_domain)`

>         * The source account is the **Home Domain**'s ``SIGNING_KEY``, the value is the **Web Auth Domain**. It can be at most 64 characters.

Reviewer: 💡 I think it is worth splitting the source account, and value into separate dot points.

* `transaction`: an XDR-encoded Stellar transaction with the following:
  * source account set to the **Server Account**
  * invalid sequence number (set to 0) so the transaction cannot be run on the Stellar network
  * time bounds: `{min: now(), max: now() + 900 }` (we recommend expiration of 15 minutes to give the **Client** time to sign transaction)
  * operations:
    * `manage_data(source: client account, key: '<home domain> auth', value: random_nonce())`
      * The source account is the **Client Account**
      * The value of key is the **Home Domain**, followed by `auth`. It can be at most 64 characters.
      * The value must be 64 bytes long. It contains a 48 byte cryptographic-quality random string encoded using base64 (for a total of 64 bytes after encoding).
    * subsequent operations, order unimportant:
      * `manage_data(source: server account, key: 'web_auth_domain', value: web_auth_domain)`
        * The source account is the **Server Account**
        * The value is the **Server**'s domain. It can be at most 64 characters.
      * zero or more `manage_data(source: server account, ...)` reserved for future use
  * signature by the **Server Account**

> * `network_passphrase`: (optional but recommended) Stellar network passphrase used by the **Home Domain**. This allows a **Client** to verify that it's using the correct passphrase when signing and is useful for identifying when a **Client** or **Server** have been configured incorrectly.

Reviewer: ❗ I think this still needs to say that the intention is to check what the server is using, not the home domain. If the client wanted to check what the home domain used, it'd look at the toml.
```suggestion
* `network_passphrase`: (optional but recommended) Stellar network passphrase used by the **Server**. This allows a **Client** to verify that it's using the correct passphrase when signing and is useful for identifying when a **Client** or **Server** have been configured incorrectly.
```

* Content-Type: `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`, body: `transaction=<signed XDR (URL-encoded)>`)
* Content-Type: `application/json`, body: `{"transaction": "<signed XDR>"}`

To validate the challenge transaction the following steps are performed by the **Web Auth Endpoint**. If any of the listed steps fail, then the authentication request must be rejected — that is, treated by the **Web Auth Endpoint** as an invalid input.

* decode the received input as a base64-urlencoded XDR representation of Stellar transaction envelope;
* verify that transaction source account is equal to the **Home Domain**'s ``SIGNING_KEY``;
* verify that transaction has time bounds set, and that current time is between the minimum and maximum bounds;
* verify that transaction's first operation is a [Manage Data](https://www.stellar.org/developers/guides/concepts/list-of-operations.html#manage-data) operation that:
  * has a non-null source account

>   * has the **Home Domain** as the key of the operation

Reviewer: 💡 It's unnecessary for the server to verify this because they signed the transaction. Our SDKs might do it, but there's little need in the specification to specify it. It doesn't hurt to specify it, but this is why we don't specify verifying the web auth domain here as well.

Author: Aren't all verifications above this comment unnecessary though? The only thing the server needs to do is verify that it's account signed the transaction and then verify the other signatures depending on whether the client account exists. Should I remove all verification points above this comment?

Reviewer: You're right, but I don't think there is significant value in removing existing statements made here, I just wouldn't go out of your way to add new ones.
